[REF] website: move address autocomplete to General + update (#17627)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/general/integrations/address_autocomplete.rst

====================
Address autocomplete
====================

Odoo provides a feature to automatically complete contact address information using the Google
Places API. This service allows developers to retrieve detailed place information via HTTP requests.
As you begin typing an address, the system suggests a list of matching locations to simplify

> data entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Odoo integrates with the Google Places API to allow the autocompletion of addresses. As you begin typing an address, the system provides a list of suggested locations, reducing manual errors and saving time.
```

I think the first sentence could be a little more direct, so I made a suggestion.

Also, since this documentation is aimed at regular users, I think we could probably drop the sentence about HTTP requests ... what do you think? And if we remove it, we should probably remove the link to the developers documentation too.

(Or ... maybe, for some reason, it would make sense to have a little admonition only for developers? I don't understand this well enough to know why a developer might be reading about this here. Maybe you have a better understanding about that?)

Author: You are right! I guess we can remove it. I kept it because I thought it must have been added for some reason, but as you said, our documentation is aimed at regular users. Thank you!

.. image:: address_autocomplete/address-autocomplete-example.png
   :alt: Address autocomplete on the contact form.
   :scale: 80%

.. seealso::
   - `Google Maps Platform <https://mapsplatform.google.com/maps-products>`_

>    - `Google Developers Documentation: Google Places API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `Google developer documentation: Google Places API
```

If we do keep this: (see previous comment):
- should we be linking to this instead https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/places/web-service/overview? The current link seems to go to documentation about 'Place Autocomplete (Legacy)', rather than Places API documentation.
- from some Googling, this seems to be more often called just ' ... developer documentation', e.g., 

<img width="800" height="313" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/661480e4-58bd-4c44-aca0-d036e78a1228" />

Author: We can remove the HTTP request information from your previous comment. But I would still add this link as I think it could be useful.

     <https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/places/web-service/autocomplete>`_

.. _address_autocomplete/places-api-configuration:

Google Places API configuration
===============================

To use Google for address autocompletion, you must first :ref:`enable the API
<address_autocomplete/enable-api>` and :ref:`create the required credentials
<address_autocomplete/generate_api_key>`.

.. _address_autocomplete/enable-api:

Enable the Google Places API
----------------------------

To enable the Google Places API, follow these steps:

#. Go to the `Google Cloud console <https://console.cloud.google.com/getting-started>`_.
#. `Create <https://dash.cloudflare.com/sign-up>`_ or `sign in <https://dash.cloudflare.com/login>`_
   to a Google account.
#. In the upper-left corner, click :guilabel:`Select a project` or the selected project's name if
   you have already created one. In the :guilabel:`Select a resource` pop-up, select a project, or

>    create a :guilabel:`New Project`.

Reviewer: Can we take a look at this together? (at the two scenarios: no project created & with one already there) I wonder if we need to edit this slightly as it confused me a bit (as I was doing it in an account where there was already a project).

Author: Sure, let's discuss it!

#. Open the :icon:`fa-bars` side panel, and go to :menuselection:`APIs & Services --> Enabled APIs &

>    services`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Open the :icon:`fa-bars` :guilabel:`(Navigation menu)` side panel, then go to :menuselection:`APIs & Services --> Enabled APIs &
```

Or maybe:

```suggestion
#. To open the side panel, click :icon:`fa-bars` :guilabel:`(Navigation menu)`, then go to :menuselection:`APIs & Services --> Enabled APIs &
```

Also, I'm seeing 'APIs and services' and 'Enabled APIs and services' respectively:

<img width="486" height="269" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bb16ec0b-09dc-4e19-99df-6728ccbc9ed7" />

> #. Click :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Enable APIs and services` at the top.

Reviewer: Not sure you need the 'at the top'. And I notice in the section on credentials, you don't guide the user like that. So I think you could drop it.

#. Search for :guilabel:`Places API` and select it.

> #. Click the :guilabel:`Enable` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click :guilabel:`Enable`.
```

#. Complete the verification process.

.. important::

>    Do not enable :guilabel:`Places API (New)`, as it is not yet supported by Odoo.

Reviewer: Since a user is most likely to be asking themselves which to choose in step 6, I think it'd move this note to there.

.. note::

>    Google's pricing depends on the number of requests and their complexity.

Reviewer: Just a suggestion:

```suggestion
.. note::
   Google's pricing for Places API usage depends on the number of requests and their complexity.
```

.. _address_autocomplete/generate_api_key:

> Generate API Credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create API credentials
```

Since you use 'create' previously. And no need for a capital C for creditials, from what I can tell?

------------------------

Once the :ref:`project is created and the Places API is enabled <address_autocomplete/enable-api>`,

> you need to create API credentials. To do so, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the :ref:`project is created and the Places API is enabled <address_autocomplete/enable-api>`, create API credentials. To do so, follow these steps:
```

This is approach you took in the Odoo config section, and I think it's just neater.

#. Open the side panel of your project's dashboard, and go to :menuselection:`APIs & Services -->

>    Credentials`.

Reviewer: I'm not sure it's worth introducing the concept of the projects 'dashboard' here, since we didn't mention it before. Maybe just:

```suggestion
#. Open the side panel of the project, then go to :menuselection:`APIs and services -->
   Credentials`.
```

#. Click :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Create credentials` :icon:`fa-caret-down`, then select

>    :guilabel:`API key` from the dropdown menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Create credentials` :icon:`fa-caret-down`, then select
   :guilabel:`API key`.
```

Since the values appear when you click, I don't think you need to specify 'frop the dropdown menu'.

#. In the :guilabel:`Create API key` panel, enter a :guilabel:`Name`.
#. In the :guilabel:`Select API restrictions`, specify which APIs the key can access if there are

>    several APIs configured in your project. Ensure :guilabel:`Places API` is selected.

Reviewer: Maybe:

```suggestion
#. In the :guilabel:`Select API restrictions` dropdown, specify which APIs the key can access if there are
```

Mention clicking 'OK' to select the restrictions?

#. Click :guilabel:`Create`.

.. note::
   The API key can be restricted to allow requests only from specific websites, IP addresses, or

>    apps.

Reviewer: Do you mean via the section 'Application restrictions' in that right-hand panel? Could we mention that?

Author: Exactly 😃 I will mention it

.. important::

>    Save your API key securely. Do not share it publicly or expose it in client-side code.

Reviewer: I don't have a suggestion here, but I think it would be better to reword 'expose it in client-side code' ... sounds too techy for user documentation, I think, no?

Odoo configuration
==================

Once the API key is generated, connect the Odoo database to the Google Places API. To do so:

#. Go to the **Settings app**.
#. Navigate to the :guilabel:`Integrations` section.

> #. Enable :guilabel:`Google Address Autocomplete`, and :guilabel:`Save`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Enable :guilabel:`Google Address Autocomplete`, then click :guilabel:`Save`.
```

#. Insert your :ref:`Google Places API key <address_autocomplete/generate_api_key>` in the

>    :guilabel:`Paste your API Key` field.

Reviewer: What bad UX to be told (on the screen) you have to click Save then come back to the same place to continue settting this up 🙈 

I'm wondering if we should say something like:

```suggestion
#. Return to the :guilabel:Ìntegrations` section, then paste your :ref:`Google Places API key <address_autocomplete/generate_api_key>` in the dedicated field.
```

Partly because 'Paste your API key' isn't really a field name, just a placeholder ...

====================
Address autocomplete
====================

Odoo integrates with the Google Places API to allow the autocompletion of addresses. As you begin
typing an address, the system provides a list of suggested locations, reducing manual errors and
saving time.

.. image:: address_autocomplete/address-autocomplete-example.png
   :alt: Address autocomplete on the contact form.

>    :scale: 80%

Reviewer: Audrey made the good point that we could be more transparent up front about the fact that using this potentially costs money.

I think we would be better to include this note (the same as currently on the Geolocation page), ideally just after the image:

<img width="505" height="86" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9c1777b9-2bf0-4b2a-bd0d-447ef895a72f" />

It links here: https://mapsplatform.google.com/pricing

That way, we let them explore (and try to understand) for themselves, but at least they know up front they will probably need to pay.

I think we can then remove the later note about pricing.

.. seealso::
   - `Google Maps Platform <https://mapsplatform.google.com/maps-products>`_
   - `Google developer documentation: Google Places API
     <https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/places/web-service>`_

.. _address_autocomplete/places-api-configuration:

Google Places API configuration
===============================

To use Google for address autocompletion, you must first :ref:`enable the API
<address_autocomplete/enable-api>` and :ref:`create the required credentials
<address_autocomplete/generate_api_key>`.

.. _address_autocomplete/enable-api:

Enable the Google Places API
----------------------------

To enable the Google Places API, follow these steps:

#. Go to the `Google Cloud console <https://console.cloud.google.com/getting-started>`_.
#. `Create <https://dash.cloudflare.com/sign-up>`_ or `sign in <https://dash.cloudflare.com/login>`_
   to a Google account.
#. In the upper-left corner, click :guilabel:`Select a project`. Then, in the :guilabel:`Select a
   resource` pop-up, create a :guilabel:`New Project`.

>    .. note::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. tip::
```

Little suggestion from Audrey that this would be better as a tip.

      If you have already created a project, but want to switch to a different one, click the
      selected project's name in the upper-left corner. Then, in the :guilabel:`Select a resource`
      pop-up, manually select a project. If the desired project is already selected by default,
      proceed to the next step.

#. Open the :icon:`fa-bars` :guilabel:`(Navigation menu)` side panel, then go to
   :menuselection:`APIs and services --> Enabled APIs and services`.
#. Click :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Enable APIs and services`.
#. Search for :guilabel:`Places API` and select it.

   .. important::
      Do not enable :guilabel:`Places API (New)`, as it is not yet supported by Odoo.

#. Click :guilabel:`Enable`.
#. Complete the verification process.

.. note::

>    Google's pricing for Places API usage depends on the number of requests and their complexity.

Reviewer: I think we can drop this if we add the new note in the intro

.. _address_autocomplete/generate_api_key:

Create API credentials
----------------------

Once the :ref:`project is created and the Places API is enabled <address_autocomplete/enable-api>`,
create API credentials. To do so, follow these steps:

#. Open the :icon:`fa-bars` :guilabel:`(Navigation menu)` side panel of the project, then go to

>    :menuselection:`APIs & Services --> Credentials`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :menuselection:`APIs and services --> Credentials`.
```
